## 3. [Web Basics](3_web_basics/readme.md) Reflection

* What 2 new things did you learn about the web?
* What are some important things to remember when setting up your HTML site?
* How did you feel when you saw your web page live?
* Did you have an "aha" moments or were any concepts solidified?
* Did you find any resources on your own that helped you better understand a topic? If so, please list it.

I learned that "World Wide Web" and "Internet" aren't the same. I had no idea that the Web was just one way to share and display just one type of data that travels on the Internet. I had thought the terms were interchangeable. 

I also learned about name servers and DNS, and that data translating IP addresses to domain names is stored on all sorts of different servers. In order to make the full translation, my computer has to talk to several gatekeepers and hunt down the site's IP based on the domain name entered; once the translation is made, it is stored locally for a little while, which prevents the computer from refreshing its search if I need to call on that domain name a couple minutes later. Unfortunately, this storage can also prevent an IP change from being recognized for a long time, longer if the servers themselves only update changes at set intervals.

When setting up my HTML site, I had to remember to match up all my tags, so <body> was accompanied by </body> and so forth. Visually, it helped me to separate each element onto its own line, like I learned on Code Academy. When I decided to add a header, I used what I learned in the Sublime Perfect Workflow tutorial to search for an html snippet. I assume that the naming of dukegreene.github.io was crucial to making the exercise work properly. I had almost created index.html in the parent folder, but I stopped myself because it didn't make sense to do it that way.

I felt relieved when I saw "Hello DBC!" on the screen. I had run into a huge snag where my dukegreene.github.io repository was showing up locally and on GitHub, but not in the GitHub app. I had tried refreshing and reopening the app to no avail, and I ended up using the command line tutorial to push the changes manually with git commit -m. But I wasn't satisfied with the app not working, so I slogged through Google looking for a solution I couldn't find, and eventually click-dragged the path to dukegreene.github.io into the app itself. Sure enough, that worked, and I was able to delete the duplicate empty folder. I knew what the html would look like, and it felt good to have that validated, but the best feeling of all was knowing that I had wrestled with a problem without getting stuck for more than a few minutes.

My big "aha" was when I used "subl" in Terminal for the first time since I'd set up the shortcut during prep. Not only did it work instantly, but it opened the entire directory I needed to work on in the sidebar. THat moment helped me understand a little more about project workflow. I had previously envisioned clicking through to each file I needed to work on, editing it, saving a newly named version, and uploading that new file to GitHub. But it's way easier to load up a whole folder and edit multiple files in one window, then use terminal to select the folder's contents and commit the changes. Version control takes care of the rest so I don't have to worry about redundant files lying around and cluttering my workspace.

I found this two-step tutorial for creating the Terminal shortcut for Sublime Text 2. https://coderwall.com/p/b__8xq Omitting the "\ 2" from the instructions should make it work on the newest version of Sublime Text.