# U1.W2: Thinking About Time Reflection

* What is your biggest time management challenge with during Phase 0? 
* How will you combat that? 
* What techniques will you try?
* What is your overall plan for Phase 0?

My biggest time management challenge is staying focused and on task when I sit down to do my work. If I can get into a flow state, I'm golden. But that usually happens for me if I'm working on something creative. If I'm not, I tend to get scattered or spaced out at my desk and end up getting distracted by Facebook or Reddit or Twitter. I plan to push back against this by setting small concentration goals and breaking my work up into small steps. I find that when I let myself do the first little productive thing, many others follow. I'm intrigued by the Pomodoro technique, which seems focused on handling productivity in small bites, and I also like the Fogg behavioral stuff. I hadn't really considered the possibility of deliberately designing my own behaviors and triggers, but the brain is elastic and I don't see why it wouldn't be a great idea. I think I'll use those two methods to try and develop a behavioral habit of breaking my day up into exciting half-hours. 

I think this will help me with my goal of increased mindfulness, which I've been working on since I started DBC. During Phase 0 I plan to pull as much work forward as possible and schedule pairings early and often. I've found that the Google+ group is a decent on-topic outlet for my social media hankerings, so I'm trying to gradually replace my Facebook usage with time in the Firecrackers discussions. I strive to do two challenges a day and do the hardest technical work earlier in the day, leaving the bulk of reading and cultural assignments for the evenings. With the two-a-day goal, I leave myself plenty of room to get pulled into rabbit holes I find interesting or take extra time with concepts I don't understand right away. I'm trying not to slave-drive myself. Every day I set aside at least an hour for my free time so I don't burn out. By keeping a steady pace I'll be able to forgive myself for small mistakes and stay fluid enough not to stagnate my way into the big ones.